## Chapter 2 

## Notes 

how does make work, what's it's purpose, and what is a makefile? 
- you declare dependencies, and then describe how to build them or rely on the program's internal knowledge of how to build most common software. The purpose of the make utility is  to  determine  automatically  which
pieces of a large program need to be recompiled, and issue the commands. describes the relationships among files in your program, and the states the commands for updating each file.  The makefile tells make how to compile and link a program.




Give his 5 steps after `make ex1` is called 
<details> 

- Does the file ex1 exist already? 
- No. ok, is there another file that starts with ex1?
- Yes, it's called ex1.c. Do I know how to build .c files? 
- Yes, I run this command `cc ex1.c -o ex1 ` to build them 
- I shall make you one `ex1` by using `cc` to build it from ex1.c `
</details> 

What is `CFLAGS`?
<details> 

- CFLAGS is the list of flags to pass to the compilation command
- A way to pass modifiers to the `make` command? 

</details>

What is `-Wall` ? 
<details> 

</details>

What is `-g` ? 
<details> 

-g, -gline-tables-only, -gmodules
Control  debug information output.  Note that Clang debug infor-
mation works best at -O0.  When more than  one  option  starting
with -g is specified, the last one wins:
</details>

What is `clean` ?
<details> 
Tells  `make` how to clean up the project 
</details>

What is `rm -f` ? 
<details> 

</details>

What does `gcc -o hellomake hellomake.c hellofunc.c -I.` do in plain english? 
<details> 
This compiles the two .c files and names the executable hellomake. The -I. is included so that gcc will look in the current directory (.) for the include file hellomake.h.
</details>

What does a makefile rule-shape look like?
<details> 

```
target … : prerequisites …
recipe
...
...
```
</details> 

## Extra Credit 

1) Create an all: ex1 target that will build ex1 with just the command make.
2) Read man make to find out more information on how to run it.
3) Read man cc to find out more information on what the flags -Wall and -g do.
4) Research Makefiles online and see if you can improve this one.
5) Find a Makefile in another C project and try to understand what it's doing.


##### 1) Create an all: ex1 target that will build ex1 with just the command make.

```
all: 
    make ex1 // or:  cc -Wall -g    ex1.c   -o ex1

```


##### 2) Read man make to find out more information on how to run it.



##### 3) Read man cc to find out more information on what the flags -Wall and -g do.

###### 4) Research Makefiles online and see if you can improve this one.

<details> <summary> research </summary> 
- A target is usually the name of a file that is generated by a program; examples of targets are executable or object files. A target can also be the name of an action to carry out, such as ‘clean’. 
- A prerequisite is a file that is used as input to create the target. A target often depends on several files.
- A recipe is an action that make carries out. A recipe may have more than one command, either on the same line or each on its own line.
- Usually a recipe is in a rule with prerequisites and serves to create a target file if any of the prerequisites change. However, the rule that specifies a recipe for the target need not have prerequisites. For example, the rule containing the delete command associated with the target ‘clean’ does not have prerequisites.
- A rule, then, explains how and when to remake certain files which are the targets of the particular rule. make carries out the recipe on the prerequisites to create or update the target. A rule can also explain how and when to carry out an action.
</details> 

##### 5)  Find a Makefile in another C project and try to understand what it’s doing:  
https://github.com/Phildo/pixQL/blob/master/makefile
- I can see clean, cgflags,etc



## Understanding 

1) Write the makefile from scratch 
2) How would you improve this makefile? 
<details> 
you could add more automation. 
```
run: 
    ./ex2 
    // then make run would run everything, instead of having to type the file out 
    
/* or */    

run 
    make ex2
    ./ex2 
    
/*
(from ch 3) 
printts: 

make ex3
make[1]: `ex3' is up to date.
./ex3
You are 10 yrs old and 100 inches tall 
*/

```
</details> 






